.TH S6CTL 1
.Sh NAME
s6ctl
.SH DESCRIPTION
s6ctl is a bash script for easier interaction with s6 and s6-rc, made for artix linux.
.SH USAGE
.TP
.B s6ctl help
Prints out usage information.
.TP
.B s6ctl up SERVICE
Starts a service
.TP
.B s6ctl down [force] SERVICE
Stops a service. Can force them down, but this is usually not needed.
.TP
.B s6ctl restart SERVICE
Stops a service and starts it again immidiately.
.TP
.B s6ctl in BUNDLE add SERVICE
Add a service to a bundle. This will enable a service in s6-rc if you add it to the "default" bundle.
.TP
.B s6ctl in BUNDLE remove SERVICE
Remove a service from a bundle. This is needed to disable a service similiar to above.
.TP
.B s6ctl create BUNDLE SERVICE
Creates a new bundle, and add a service to it.
.TP
.B s6ctl delete BUNDLE
Deletes a bundle. Use with caution.
.TP
.B s6ctl log SERVICE
Read the log of service with $PAGER. if no service is given it will open the log directory in vim.
.TP
.B s6ctl status [full] SERVICE
Prints information of a service and if it is a longrun it will print the current status of the service. With the full option it will also print the dependencies of the service, it's processes and a tail of it's log.
.TP
.B s6ctl cat SERVICE
Prints the script of the service.
.TP
.B s6ctl update
Updates the service database. This requires artix as it will just run the alpm transaction hook.
.TP
.B s6ctl doctor
Will do som various checks on database integrity and look for failed services. This will only look for an exitcode different than 0 or -1.
.TP
.B s6ctl docs COMPONENT
This will open the documentation on skarnet.org in links.
.TP
.B s6ctl list all
Lists all services and their type.
.TP
.B s6ctl list up/down
Lists longruns that are either currently up or currently down with relevant information.
.TP
.B s6ctl list bundle/longrun/oneshot
Lists services of specific type with relevant information.
.TP
.B s6ctl list in BUNDLE
Lists the contents in a bundle.
.TP
.B s6ctl list dependencies SERVICE
Lists the dependencies of a service.
.TP
.B s6ctl list processes SERVICE
Lists the currently running processes of a service with ps.
